XeriomPlatform
==============

A deployment recipe and library based on requirements for projects undertaken 
at Xeriom Networks.

Requirements
------------

If you'd like to use the deployment recipe you'll need Capistrano 2. The 
library will require a reasonably recent Rails installation.

Your Subversion repository should be in the following layout:

  +repository root+/
    trunk/
      +application_name+
    tags/
      +application_name+
    branches/

For instance, the Xeriom respository looks something like this:

  https://code.xeriom.net/svn/Xeriom/
    trunk/
      information_tool
      website/
      [ other projects ]
      plugins/
    tags/
      information_tool
      website/
      [ other projects ]
      plugins/
    branches/

SSH should be setup using a key-pair which should be findable from 
$HOME/.ssh/identity. I have a symlink from here to my real private identity 
file. The administrative user (see Configuring, below) should have the public 
half of this key installed in their authorised keys file.

Your server should have some software already installed - Apache, MySQL, 
Mongrel & Mongrel Cluster gems, Ruby, etc should be installed. Here's how to 
do that with Ubuntu 7.04.

  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get upgrade
  sudo apt-get install build-essential
  sudo apt-get install ruby ri rdoc mysql-server libmysql-ruby ruby1.8-dev \ 
    irb1.8 libdbd-mysql-perl libdbi-perl libmysql-ruby1.8 \
    libmysqlclient15off libnet-daemon-perl libplrpc-perl libreadline-ruby1.8 \
    libruby1.8 mysql-client-5.0 mysql-common mysql-server-5.0 rdoc1.8 ri1.8 \
    ruby1.8 libmysqlclient15-dev rails apache2
  sudo gem install mysql mongrel mongrel_cluster -y
  sudo a2enmod proxy_balancer
  sudo a2enmod proxy_http
  sudo a2enmod proxy_connect
  sudo a2enmod rewrite


Installing
----------

Change into your plugins directory and use Piston[1] to install the Xeriom Platform.

  cd vendor/plugins
  svn up
  piston import \
    https://code.xeriom.net/svn/Xeriom/trunk/plugins/xeriom_platform/
  svn ci xeriom_platform -m "Pulling in the Xeriom Platform."

[1] http://piston.rubyforge.org/


Configuring
-----------

If you haven't already, Capify your project.

  capify .

You should get ta config/deploy.rb file. That's where the magic happens.

There are a bunch of variables you can configure - so many that it'll take me 
ages to list them all - so here are the required variables... I'll add the 
optional variables soon. Honest.

Tell the recipe what your application is called. This is used as the 
application name in the Subversion repository. See the requirements section 
for how the URL is constructed. 

  set :application, "xit"

We also need to know where your Subversion respository lives. Again, refer to 
the requirements section above to see how this is used.

  set :repository_root,  "https://code.xeriom.net/svn/Xeriom/"

The setup process requires sudo access to install and configure various bits 
of software. Enter the user on the remote server that you've granted this 
access to. If this is not set it will default to ENV['USER'].

  set :administrative_user, "craig"

Which subdomain or your domain will this applicaiton live at? If you use 
staging (which is the default) this will be used to construct URLs for your 
staging servers:

  Production will be dns_name.domain
  Staging will be dns_name-staging.domain
  Integration will be dns_name-integration.domain.

If you leave this blank it will default to the application name.

  set :dns_name, "xit"

Depending on your Subversion setup, you may need to specify a username and 
password on the command line to be able to checkout the source (we do here at 
Xeriom).

  set :scm_username, "deploy"   # Or another user that has read-only access.
  set :scm_password, "password" # This is a fake password - put in a real one.


Deployment
----------

For the first deployment we'll need to do a little housekeeping so we run a 
special task.

  cap production deploy:setup
  cap production apache:symlink
  cap production deploy:initial

For subsequent deploys you can run the regular task.

  cap production deploy


Bugs
----

If anything goes wrong (it's quite likely - this is a very new recipe) please 
let me know: craig@xeriom.net.


Credit
------

This plugin was inspired by Mathie's rubaidh_platform plugin.
  http://repos.rubaidh.com/plugins/trunk/rubaidh_platform/
I've changed and added quite a bit of code to fit in with how our projects 
work.

Licence
-------

Copyright (C) 2007 Rubaidh Ltd. Release under the MIT licence.
Copyright (C) 2008 Xeriom Networks Ltd. Release under the MIT licence.